>> [Background Music] I think
many people today don't know
what to believe anymore.
>> People are basically
going to keep on, up to a,
help them cover what
really happened.
>> I felt like something
was watching me.
>> We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told the
entire story.
>> George Noory: And welcome
to another exciting
edition of "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory with
our special guest,
Mary Ann Winkowski.
What's it like for you
to go to a funeral?
And if you passed on, would you
actually go to your own funeral?
Let's look.
>> Mary Ann Winkowski:
Everybody attends their funeral.
People like their funerals.
You walk into a funeral home and
you just pay your last respects.
Standing right here at the foot
of the casket is the spirit
of whosever in the casket.
Now, the women will
check out their clothes,
what their hair looks like.
They'll walk to both sides
of the casket, see
who sent flowers, who didn't.
The guys, guys are funny.
Guys have to count how many
cars in the funeral procession
to the cemetery,
the more the better.
Now the little prayer
service that the priest
or the minister has,
most people will walk
into that light at that point.
They are actually
seeing relatives
that have died before
them or friends
that are motioning,
come on, come on.
They can't talk to them
but they can see them.
But, if you don't want to go
to that light you
do not have to go.
>> Noory: With our special
guest Winkowski,
we call her the ghost buster.
I like that.
I like that guys actually count
the cars at their funeral?
>> Winkowski: They do.
It's a guy thing.
>> Noory: Well, you know,
I would probably hire
professional wailers
to throw themselves
on the casket.
>> Winkowski:
That's what scared me
when grandma started
taking me to funerals,
not the person standing
at the foot of the casket.
>> Noory: The other people.
>> Winkowski:
But the wailers,
I mean with the black
veils over their heads and.
>> Noory: They're professionals.
>> Winkowski:
Yes, and you know,
they don't really have them
anymore but back when, I'd go.
You know, I'd hang on to her
and go what are they doing?
What's wrong with them?
Why are they screaming
like that?
And you know, the more
tears, the louder,
the more you were loved and the
higher you were going to go.
>> Noory: Absolutely,
you're a consultant to the
"Ghost Whisperer" show?
>> Winkowski: Yes.
>> Noory: A CBS television show?
>> Winkowski: Right.
>> Noory: How did that
all come about for you?
>> Winkowski:
"The Medium"
with Patty Arquette
had just come
out so everybody was
scrambling to get something.
>> Noory: Like that.
>> Winkowski:
Similar, correct.
Timing is everything.
>> Noory: It sure is.
>> Winkowski: And
so James Van Praagh knew me.
>> Noory: Mmm, great medium.
>> Winkowski: He is.
And so he gave my name to
John Gray.
>> Noory: Okay.
>> Winkowski: Who
was the producer of the show
and we met in a coffee
shop, a Starbucks,
in Hollywood, only
Hollywood and.
>> Noory: You flew
up from Cleveland?
>> Winkowski:
Yes, well we had,
actually were staying
in Santa Monica,
trying to get a show bought.
>> Noory: Okay.
>> Winkowski:
And so, and John goes,
is there anybody in here?
And I says, yes, sitting
over there on that couch
and over there, which for the
people that are so devoted
to "Ghost Whisperer" the
beginning of the show,
that scene is actually in it.
And so he walked out of there.
He had always done shows,
movies of the week and that kind
of thing and he wanted to
do a television series.
>> Noory: Yes.
>> Winkowski: Before
he got in his car he called
who he had to call and
he said, let's go for it.
>> Noory: And they did it?
>> Winkowski: And they did it.
>> Noory: Just like that.
>> Winkowski: Five years.
>> Noory: It's amazing how
Hollywood works sometimes
if you're with the right people.
>> Winkowski:
You know,
there's no rhyme or reason.
That's right.
You have to, like I said,
right time, right place.
>> Noory: No sequel?
>> Winkowski:
Not that I know of.
I mean they actually wanted to
go longer than the five years
but Love wanted to
be done with it.
>> Noory: She wanted.
She wanted something else.
>> Winkowski: And she's got
a baby coming next month now.
>> Noory: How are people
reacting these days
to spirits and ghosts?
I mean are people
still fascinated by it?
Can you tell?
>> Winkowski: There's a big
difference.
Even if, when I gave a lecture
10 or 15 years ago the audience
of 100 people would be 99
women and 1 man and halfway
through the wife is
going, wake up, wake up.
Now, I do an audience of
4 or 5, 600, half are men
and men have better
questions than women.
>> Noory: That's
interesting.
>> Winkowski: You
know, it's like, again, 10,
15 years ago, if you went to
a party and you told somebody,
you know, I think I've
got a ghost in the house.
And they'd go, oh, yeah
she's ready for the.
>> Noory: Sure.
>> Winkowski: Cookie factory.
>> Noory: Time for us to go.
>> Winkowski: That's right.
Now you go to a party
and you say, yeah,
I think I've got a
ghost in the house.
Why? And you tell them.
>> Noory: Do people have you
show up at ghost buster parties?
>> Winkowski: I,
that's not something
I would even do.
>> Noory: You don't do that?
>> Winkowski: No.
>> Noory: Okay.
>> Winkowski: You know,
I've got to put a line
between entertainment and work.
>> Noory: Right, there's
a fine line there.
>> Winkowski: There
is, there is.
My entertainment I think it's
enough when I do all the talks
that I give and people ask
questions and it goes on.
I mean my, two hours is
the minimum talk I give.
>> Noory: Wow, I used to
remember my grandmother,
growing up in the
Fitchburg, Massachusetts.
She would have, and they had.
The living room they
called the parlor then.
Remember?
>> Winkowski: That's right.
>> Noory: And she had
all her girlfriends there
and family members.
>> Winkowski: Seance.
>> Noory: And they were
doing a tea reading.
Everybody would drink tea
and in those days they had
the actual leaves in the tea.
>> Winkowski: That's right.
>> Noory: And when the tea
was finished they looked
at where the leaves were.
>> Winkowski: Yeah.
>> Noory: They had some old
lady there look at these things
and go, this is your future.
>> Winkowski: That's right.
>> Noory: She'd be
like a psychic lady.
>> Winkowski: That's right.
>> Noory: But they loved it.
>> Winkowski: Yeah, yeah.
>> Noory: And they
would do it every week.
>> Winkowski: That's right.
>> Noory: I didn't
like it as a kid.
I thought it was freaky.
>> Winkowski: Right, well the
table movings
and raising the table and
seances were big, you know,
where people would sit
around and have seances.
And see , and I put that
in the same category
with the Ouija board.
You're calling them in and
I think you could be asking
for trouble like that.
>> Noory: Why didn't I
like it as a little boy?
Why was I scared?
>> Winkowski: Because
there was probably just enough
energy in there that
made you uncomfortable.
>> Noory: Maybe so.
>> Winkowski: And
kids are sensitive.
>> Noory: I also didn't like
the little, old reader lady.
>> Winkowski: Her
voice was a little too raspy?
>> Noory: She was like a witch.
>> Winkowski: Yeah, yeah, yeah.
>> Noory: She might
have been a nice lady.
>> Winkowski: Yeah,
but your perception
of her wasn't good.
>> Noory: She's dead now
and she's probably here
watching this show.
Do you sense anything?
>> Winkowski: Not today.
>> Noory: Do you
sense a spirit here?
>> Winkowski: There was
a couple here when I walked in.
>> Noory: Really?
>> Winkowski: Two men, yes,
yeah, yeah.
>> Noory: Would they have?
Now this is a relatively new
building, a new studio out here
so would they have died on
the land that was here before
in terms of whatever
the building was
or why are they here?
>> Winkowski: They could have
followed any
of the workers in and maybe they
were just going to go with them
at the end of the day.
>> Noory: So they could
be from someplace else?
>> Winkowski: That's right.
They could have come in with
one of your other guests
and thought oh,
interesting place.
I think I'll stay for a while.
Who's going to tell
them they can't stay?
They can do anything they want.
It's.
>> Noory: Well, you
will tell them.
>> Winkowski: Yeah,
but it's an old wives' tale.
They had to have
lived in the house.
They had to own the house.
Oh and the one I love the
best, the house is built
on an Indian burial ground.
>> Noory: I love
those or cemetery.
>> Winkowski: Never, never,
I've never found a house built
on an Indian burial ground.
>> Noory: Well, I bet
they have been somewhere.
>> Winkowski: Back,
way back when, Indians
moved with.
>> Noory: A cabin.
>> Winkowski: With, you know.
>> Noory: Did they
dig up their dead?
>> Winkowski: They burned
most of them or they were.
>> Noory: So you don't think
there is an Indian burial ground
with a house built on it?
>> No, I've actually been
to Indian burial grounds
where there are actual
Indians buried but you know,
there could have been
a war in your backyard
and an Indian got killed and
there's a house built on it
but native American Indians,
they have a different
belief system.
Some of them stay to
protect Mother Earth.
>> Noory: Sure.
>> Winkowski: You remember
that commercial a number of
years ago, it was for litter?
>> Noory: The crying Indian.
>> Winkowski: Yes, yes,
that's such a perfect
example of them.
>> Noory: That was a
great, emotional commercial.
>> Winkowski: It sure was,
especially when I've seen
Indians that look like that.
>> Noory: It said it all.
It said it all.
>> Winkowski: That's right.
That's right.
>> Noory: There was a
story of a little girl
who would tell her parents
that she had a friend
and the friend kept telling
them, kept telling her
that she was buried
under the floor.
And the little girl
told her parents.
They thought that
was very unusual.
They had the floor ripped up.
>> Winkowski: Good,
I would have too.
>> Noory: And there were
the bones of a little girl.
>> Winkowski: Listen
to the kids.
>> Noory: Unbelievable.
>> Winkowski: Listen
to your children.
Most kids don't know
how to lie about something.
>> Noory: So the
little girl was killed.
>> Winkowski: Yeah
and her spirit was still there.
>> Noory: The spirit was there.
It did not rest.
>> Winkowski: Right.
>> Noory: And would not rest.
>> Noory: Until they
found those bones.
>> Winkowski: That's right.
That's exactly right.
>> Noory: And then
she was at peace.
>> Winkowski: That's right.
Well, people have a perceived
idea of what they want
and how they want to go
out and if it changes,
like people live longer now.
So mom dies and she's
96 years old and all
of her friends are dead and
funerals are so expensive now.
Ah, we're not going to have a
funeral, we'll just cremate her.
>> Noory: I want to look at one
of your videos on a casket story
and then we'll come and
react to it afterwards.
Let's take a look.
>> Winkowski: This
lady called me up and she says,
my husband died and
she says I need you
to really come to the funeral.
And I said, okay.
And I walk in and I
was like, I was so amazed.
There's the casket leaning
upright against the wall,
funerals, with flowers,
on both sides
and I don't really know
who these people are.
They recognized me so
his wife came up to me.
She said, oh, thank you, thank
you for coming and I said,
what's that all about?
I said, I don't understand.
She goes, well, he always and
she says, no, let him tell you.
I said, sure.
So his name was Joe.
I said, hey Joe.
I said, what's this all about?
And he started laughing.
He says, 37 years
we were married.
The first time she
ever listened to me.
I said, about what?
He said, I told her I
never wanted to be laid
out in a funeral home.
So she stood him up.
>> Noory: I love that story.
I love that story.
Does that happen a lot?
>> Winkowski: Funerals are
getting a little
weirder now.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> Winkowski: I have to admit.
I went to a funeral not that
long ago and there was a lot
of cars there and I walked in
and you know how
there's different rooms
for different viewings depending
on how many bodies they have,
walked in and there was like
a -- there was a big-screen TV
on the wall and there
was a football game going
on which I thought was
strange because it was summer.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> Winkowski: And
people walking around,
holding the beer and
pretzels and I thought hah,
so I kept on walking
and there was nothing.
So I backed up and there was
no little plaque on the side
with the name of the person and
I walked in and this woman walks
up and she goes, oh
thank you for coming.
I said, this is it?
This is. I says was he created?
She goes, no.
I said, well where is he?
She goes, in the recliner with
the remote in his hand, with.
>> Noory: Never changed,
never changed.
>> Winkowski: She said,
this makes,
and he was happy, happy, happy.
That's what he wanted.
>> Noory: My father
died about two years ago --
>> Winkowski: Yeah?
>> Noory: -- to this month and
he has yet to make contact.
>> Winkowski: You
haven't dreamt of him yet?
>> Noory: Haven't dreamt of him.
We were very close but why?
I'm guessing he's already
skedaddled to the other side.
>> Winkowski: And
that's why you would dream
of him because only people
that have crossed
over come in dreams.
But you gave me a hint
why he hasn't come to you.
>> Noory: Why?
>> Winkowski: First of
all it could take
up to two years so you're
right at that two-year mark
but more important, if you were
that close to him he might think
that you would get too upset
if you saw him in a dream
and he wouldn't want
to do that to you.
Have any of your other
relatives dreamt of him yet?
>> Noory: Nope, nope, not yet.
Well, that's not true.
My daughter has.
>> Winkowski: Then
he has definitely crossed
over so he's just afraid it's
going to upset you too much.
>> Noory: He went quick.
I don't mean died I mean the way
he just went to the other side.
>> Winkowski: Yeah,
oh I'm sure he was there
for the viewing but
he would have crossed
over as soon
as the service was over.
>> Noory: I mean I know when
I go, I want to just move.
I want to take off.
I want to go do my thing.
I want a new adventure.
>> Winkowski: Well,
I'm not going to stick around.
I'm not going to lose my light.
I will cross over.
I will stick around
for my funeral though.
I just need to hear what
everybody's going to say.
>> Noory: Are you going
to have some spirits
when you cross over, say, you
were the one that chased me out?
>> Winkowski: I've
been wondering about that.
I've tricked some people
into the light,
and I wonder how many people
are just going to do that.
I've actually thought
about that.
I started thinking that
about three years ago.
It's like yah.
I wonder how many
people are going to be.
>> Noory: Well, you know it's
like a prosecutor
who ends up in jail.
>> Winkowski: [Laugh] I know it.
>> Noory: Or a cop.
>> Winkowski: But it's
the white light.
It's going to be
good, I know it.
>> Noory: That's funny.
What is an earthbound spirit?
I think I know but I
want to hear it from you.
>> Winkowski: A
person that chooses not to go
into that light when they die.
Now that light will stay with
you for about 48 to 72 hours
after your final
memorial service
which actually gives you
enough time to go scooting
through people's
houses and be nosey.
Nobody's going to know you're
there but that light is going
to start getting
smaller and smaller
and if you don't go into it.
>> Noory: Is it like a tunnel?
>> Winkowski: Sort
of like that, yeah.
>> Noory: It's closing.
A portal?
>> Winkowski: Right
and if you don't go
into it, it disappears.
Now you're stuck.
Those are the ones I --
>> Noory: Oh, for how long?
>> Winkowski: Till
you can find somebody like me
that can make the
white light for you or --
>> Noory: I see, a new opening.
>> Winkowski: -- pr, you
decide you're going to stick
around and give somebody grief
which I wouldn't recommend.
All you have to do is
go to a funeral home
that has a service going on.
That bright, white light that's
around that spirit, you do not.
>> Noory: You go with them?
>> Winkowski:
You do not, right.
It's not an individual light,
it's a universal light.
>> Noory: A little piggy back?
>> Winkowski:
Just bebop into that light
and you'll be where
you need to be.
>> Noory: I love it.
You're not a witch.
>> Winkowski: I am not.
>> Noory: But you
know about curses?
>> Winkowski: I do.
>> Noory: What are you
doing learning about curses?
Why?
>> Winkowski: Well, my
grandmother that taught me all
of this, was the one
that knew how to put
and take off the
maloik which is --
>> Noory: What's a maloik?
>> Winkowski: -- which
is the curse, the Italian curse.
>> Noory: Ah.
>> Winkowski:
Okay, there's the Greek.
>> Noory: Winkowski is Polish.
>> Winkowski:
Well my husband is Polish.
>> Noory: Ah, that's
how it happened.
>> Winkowski:
That's how that happened but,
and the Greeks have
the evil eye and then
in Louisiana we've
got Voodoo and --
>> Noory: The Middle Easterns,
they've got the djinn.
>> Winkowski: That's exactly,
every nationality has a
curse or negative energy.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> Winkowski: However you want
to look at it
and so she thought it was part
of my learning to learn how
to do that, to take it
off and to put it on
and I've got a bad enough
temper where I didn't want
to really learn how to put it
on because I could just see me
accidently popping something
out of my mouth.
But, as it turned out no
matter which nationality,
whether it's wish-craft
or witchcraft
or whoever puts the
negative energy on you,
it can all be taken
off the same way.
>> Noory: Do you know
that you've been cursed?
>> Winkowski: You know,
if you get people going, ah.
>> Noory: Because if
somebody runs into,
let's say a string of bad luck.
>> Winkowski: Right.
>> Noory: How do we know
somebody hasn't cursed them?
>> Winkowski: That's
right and the thing is, well,
if I didn't have bad luck
I wouldn't have any luck.
I have a black cloud
over the top of my head.
I'm the born loser.
Oh please, get over it.
It can be taken care of.
You can fix that
and three things,
if you think you have a curse
on you it can affect one
of these three things,
two or all three
and in no particular order,
health, money, relationships.
>> Noory: Bang, bang, bang.
>> Winkowski:
And if it's any one
of those things you could
have negative energy on you.
>> Noory: What about the
person who gives the curse?
Isn't that going to
bite them eventually?
>> Winkowski: I think
what goes around comes around.
>> Noory: It's karma, right?
>> Winkowski: Exactly
right, I will have a person sit
in front of me and
I'll say are you ready
to have me take the curse off?
And they'll go, oh yeah, but I
want you to increase it tenfold
and send it back
to who put it on.
Yeah, no, I'm not
ruining my karma for you.
I send it out to the universe
and let the universe
take care of it.
I am not the curse police.
That's not my job.
>> Noory: If somebody,
a curse is always bad?
>> Winkowski: It's
negative energy.
>> Noory: It is negative energy?
>> Winkowski: Yeah, it is.
>> Noory: As opposed to a spell
which could be positive, right?
>> Winkowski: Correct,
absolutely.
You're absolutely correct.
>> Noory: The person who puts
the curse on you, do they have
to go to someone
who has that ability
or they can do it on their own?
>> Winkowski: They can
do it on their own.
>> Noory: Do they need a lock
of your hair or anything?
>> Winkowski: They do not.
That would make it a stronger
one but say you have a neighbor
and you and him have been
fighting over the property line
for the last ten years and every
time you look out your window,
you go, oh you son-of-a-gun.
>> Noory: I want you bad.
>> Winkowski: That's right.
That's enough negative energy
to affect him to some point,
not as much as if you went to
a storefront and found a gypsy
for $5 to have them
put a curse on him.
>> Noory: Sure, but
eventually won't it come back
and get them too?
>> Winkowski: It will.
It will, absolutely, yeah.
I truly believe that.
And then as we know
there's organizations
that have curses on them and,
but anything can be removed.
>> Noory: Now I understand you
brought us some little presents
to look at?
>> Winkowski: I did.
>> Noory: Smudge
sticks and things
which you're going to explain.
But how do you get
rid of a ghost?
Let's take a look.
>> Winkowski: The
first thing you want to do is
if you are affiliated
with any kind
of a religious organization
have an ordained priest
or minister come in
and bless the house.
Do not get your hands
on holy water
and start throwing
holy water around.
That's going to make
them very angry.
Do not do that.
The other thing that you can do
is get what is called a smudge
stick, S-M-U-D-G-E.
It's made out of
sage or sweet grass.
That's actually what Native
American Indians use to get rid
of unwanted spirits
or negative energy.
This will work.
>> Noory: This will work
so let's take a look
at some of the little things.
What is this?
>> Winkowski: This
is a smudge stick and its' made
out of sage and sweet grass.
>> Noory: Okay.
>> Winkowski: And
there's some lavender
and stuff like that in it and.
>> Noory: You can smell it too.
>> Winkowski: Yes you can.
And if you light
that and blow it
out like you would an incence.
>> Noory: Light it, right
and then blow it right out?
>> Winkowski: Blow
it out, it'll start smoking.
>> Noory: Then it
smokes and crackles.
>> Winkowski:
And that's what you go
around the perimeter of every
room in the house with and that,
if the ghost hasn't
been there very long,
that will get them to move on.
>> Noory: Why?
How does that work?
>> Winkowski: They don't like
the energy from the smoke.
It affects their energy
so they will leave.
If they choose to stay this
will make them very lethargic,
very laid back and the house
is going to feel better.
>> Noory: Huh.
>> Winkowski: The
trick to this is though,
it's got to be done at
least every two weeks.
>> Noory: Every two
weeks and it must be
through with sage, right?
>> Winkowski: Sage
or sweet grass.
>> Noory: Or sweet grass, okay.
>> Winkowski: Yes, absolutely.
>> Noory: Alright.
>> Winkowski:
Yeah, but that's definitely
and the same thing
with dreaming.
People that don't remember their
dreams because everybody dreams,
but if you don't remember the
dreams you can get an herb
called mugwort and you put
this between your pillowcase
and your pillow and in
about three weeks you'll
start remembering your dreams.
>> Noory: I can attest.
Mary Ann, about a year and a
half ago send me a little packet
of mugwort, much like this and
I just threw it in the pillow,
what the heck and I had
the wildest dreams ever.
Does it do that too?
>> Winkowski: Yeah,
very vivid, Technicolor?
>> Noory: Yes.
>> Winkowski: Yeah.
>> Noory: Yes, very strong.
>> Winkowski: Right.
>> Noory: Very loud.
>> Winkowski:
And you remember them?
>> Noory: Yes.
>> Winkowski: Yes, you do.
>> Noory: Very loud.
>> Winkowski:
That's the whole purpose.
>> Noory: Some of them
border on nightmarish.
>> Winkowski:
Because they're loud
and you're not used to it.
>> Noory: Yeah.
>> Winkowski: Right, right.
>> Noory: And then I took the
mugwort out and I went back
to some kind of normal
dream cycle.
>> Winkowski: Right, right.
>> Noory: How does that work?
>> Winkowski: Well,
because the mugwort helps you
remember and in my little pouch,
you know, there's
lavender and stuff
that actually helps
promote sleep
which some people have
a hard time sleeping.
And it's just, people that
really, really want to talk
to a deceased relative.
If they can start remembering
their dreams so that,
when that relative comes, then
you can have a conversation
with that person.
If you can't remember
your dreams,
that's never going to happen.
>> Noory: I love
that, that's exciting.
>> Winkowski: It is.
>> Noory: I think in your
dream-state you can do all kinds
of things.
>> Winkowski:
Anything you want, anything.
>> Noory: Anything.
>> Winkowski:
If you have a problem,
think about it before
you go to sleep at night.
You get up in the morning
and you've got the answer.
>> Noory: It's solved.
>> Winkowski: That's right.
>> Noory: Take care of it.
>> Winkowski: It's all you.
We can all do it.
>> Noory: A relationship, a job.
Just go to sleep and let your
subconscious do all the work
for you.
>> Winkowski:
Exactly right, absolutely.
>> Noory: Sometimes in our
human form we try too hard.
We push too hard.
>> Winkowski: We overthink it,
looking for too many angles.
>> Noory: And it doesn't work.
It doesn't work.
>> Winkowski: You can't do that.
The dream-state is.
>> Noory: Just let it happen.
>> Winkowski:
Innocent, it just happens.
That's exactly right.
>> Noory: Let it happen.
I mean I love that.
That's great.
You specialize in ghost-busting.
>> Winkowski: Correct.
>> Noory: But you're
into dreams.
>> Winkowski: Yes.
>> Noory: You're
into battling curses.
>> Winkowski: Yes.
>> Noory: What's next
for Mary Ann Winkowski?
>> Winkowski: I
enjoy writing and I think
that the more information
that is out there
when you have knowledge,
you're not afraid and like
with the curses for instance,
in the one book the
whole last chapter
in the one book is
how to remove a curse.
Anybody can do it.
I was taught how --
>> Noory: For themselves?
>> Winkowski:
For themselves.
I was taught how to do it.
You can do it.
And I don't have time to help
people with curses anymore.
Take care of it yourself and
you do it to your husband.
Let him do the little ceremony
to you and it's taken care of.
If you don't have a curse
and you did a little ceremony
you're not going to get one.
If you have a curse and
you didn't do it right,
it's not going to make it worse.
It's a total win-win situation.
But anybody can do it.
>> Noory: Prior to you coming
on we were in Mercury retrograde
and a lot of people
were acting strange
and weird during that period.
What is that?
Is that some kind
of energy force?
>> Winkowski: It is.
It looks like Mercury is
going backward instead
of going forward and Mercury
is the planet of communication.
So, anything to do
with communication is.
It's a nightmare during
Mercury retrograde.
Equipment doesn't work.
You drop. Computers don't work.
Very seriously, you don't
ever want to sign final papers
for a new house on a
Mercury retrograde.
>> Noory: Or anything?
>> Winkowski: New car,
you got the lemon if you sign
on a Mercury retrograde.
>> Noory: Why is that?
>> Winkowski: You don't hear
right during a Mercury
retrograde.
>> Noory: And does that mean
the planet is spinning the wrong
way or?
>> Winkowski: It
appears to be doing that.
>> Noory: Appears to be.
>> Winkowski: It doesn't really.
>> Noory: Physically it can't?
>> Winkowski: No, absolutely.
>> Noory: I know
enough about astronomy.
>> Winkowski: Exactly.
>> Noory: If that happens
we're all in trouble.
>> Winkowski:
All in trouble, yeah.
No, the planet just took off --
>> Noory: But it looks
that way you mean?
>> Winkowski: Right,
it appears to be
going backwards.
And every planet does
it including Earth.
Earth has a retrograde too.
>> Noory: So when we have
a retrograde do we know
when that is?
>> Winkowski: Nobody plays it
up because it's not a problem
like it is with Mercury.
Mercury is the big, the
big bully in the group.
>> Noory: Huh, why is that?
>> Winkowski: Again,
because that's the planet
that rules communication.
>> Noory: Interesting.
>> Winkowski: And you
sign any kind of a contract,
boy you read that two and three
times because you're going
to be reading it wrong and
you're going to sign it.
Mercury retrograde, signing
the final papers on a house is
so strong that if your
house is for sale forever
and it's priced right
and you can't sell it,
if you signed your final
papers on a Mercury retrograde,
you will only sell it
on a Mercury retrograde.
>> Noory: Ah, unless you put a
St. Joseph statue in the ground?
>> Winkowski:
Well, that'll help.
>> Noory: Will that work?
>> Winkowski: That
helps, yeah but it's not --
And you know, we have
three retrogrades a year.
They only last three
and half weeks.
It's hard to sell a house.
>> Noory: That's not long.
>> Winkowski:
In three and half weeks.
>> Noory: Especially in
this economic climate.
>> Winkowski: That's
right, so it's just a killer.
>> Noory: What about
people who practise Voodoo?
>> Winkowski: Yeah?
>> Noory: I've heard
two different things.
One is I've heard
it was a religion
and that North Americans
took it the wrong way.
They were actually
little figurines of people
and they put five
pins, their name on it.
Here's Mary Ann.
Here's George and it was
nothing to do with cursing
or anything like that.
And then along comes, you know,
Hollywood and everything else
and now it's Voodoo dolls,
with a doll of somebody.
You stick a pin in
and you get it.
>> Winkowski: Sticking
it, right.
>> Noory: Which is right?
>> Winkowski: Both.
>> Noory: Oh, they are.
>> Winkowski:
There's good and bad in both.
>> Noory: Okay.
>> Winkowski: Absolutely.
You can buy a little Voodoo doll
that gives you instructions how
to call somebody to love you
or to get a new boyfriend
or for money or all kinds
of different things.
Or you can buy a Voodoo doll
with all the little sayings
that have to go with
it to hurt somebody.
But there's good and
bad to everything.
Why wouldn't it be for that too?
>> Noory: I did an
experiment a long time ago
with my first book.
It was called "Worker in the
Light" but I wanted to talk
about negativity and I did
an experiment in negativity.
I had to find out if it
worked and I concentrated
for God knows how long
on a negative issue
which I won't go
into and it works.
It works but it has
a ripple effect.
There are consequences.
It was a brilliant experiment
that I will never do
again but it's there.
Why is the consequence
so much more harsh
than the initial negativity?
>> Winkowski:
Because it increases tenfold.
>> Noory: At least.
>> Winkowski:
And then bites you back.
>> Noory: Big time.
>> Winkowski: That's right.
>> Noory: Why?
>> Winkowski: So
that you learn from that --
>> Noory: Why is
somebody doing that to us?
>> Winkowski: not
to do it again.
>> Noory: Are there gods
up there doing that?
>> Winkowski: Well, I
believe there's a god watching
out for us one way
or another and maybe
if you do it enough times
and you get hurt back enough
times you won't do it anymore.
You know, it's learning.
>> Noory: Was that a dangerous
experiment on my part?
Was it foolish?
You can tell me.
>> Winkowski: If
you didn't do it directly
at somebody to hurt
them, probably not.
>> Noory: But I wanted to
see it affect somebody.
It was an experiment.
It was science.
It was.
>> Winkowski: Didn't they call,
you know, the lobotomy?
Wasn't that science too?
>> Noory: Yeah, I
guess they were.
So you're saying I
should not have done that?
>> Winkowski:
Yeah, I wouldn't have.
>> Noory: But I had to know.
>> Winkowski: Yeah.
>> Noory: As they say in
that Clint Eastwood movie,
right, "Dirty Harry"?
>> Winkowski:
Had to know, right.
>> Noory: I had to know.
>> Winkowski: Feel lucky today?
>> Noory: I found out.
I found out a lot about energy
and negativity and positivity
and karma and attitude
and everything else.
Here's another experiment.
My producer, Tom Danheiser
and I were in Las Vegas
and we're playing Blackjack.
It was a different
kind of a game
where you could put a dollar
down in addition to your bet
and if you got a Blackjack
and if you had a dollar
in that little circle you were
allowed to spin this wheel
and you would win anything from
nothing to $1,000 on this reel.
>> Winkowski: Okay.
>> Noory: It's just a huge, big,
like a wheel of fortune thing.
And Tom's over here,
I'm over here
and there's a guy in the middle.
And sure enough I put a dollar
down on this little circle.
We're playing and I get a
Blackjack and the dealer says,
well, you're allowed to
spin so we'll spin it
and wherever it lands
that's how much you get.
And so I'm looking
at Tom and saying,
let's concentrate on the $1,000.
>> Winkowski: Oh good.
>> Noory: And he
said, you got it,
and the guy in the
middle says, hogwash,
won't work, waste of time, deal.
And the dealer says no,
we have to spin the wheel.
The guy won.
So Tom and I are concentrating
on this $1,000 and this moron
in the middle is
concentrating on negativity.
>> Winkowski: Nothing.
>> Noory: The dealer
spins the wheel.
This is a big wheel.
I mean there are numbers
all over the place
and it's clicking along, click,
click, click, click, click.
Sure enough, it is
getting close to $1,000.
It's four or five clicks away
and Tom and I are looking
at each other going,
we can do this,
and it's going click,
click, click.
And a couple of clicks
away the guy says,
I told you it won't work.
It stopped.
One click from $1,000.
He did it to us.
>> Winkowski: Yeah, he did.
He did exactly.
You're right.
He did.
>> Noory: So I have learned
the hard way that negativity,
attitude controls
everything that we do.
>> Winkowski:
You throw it out there
and it's going to come back.
>> Noory: Absolutely, people
want to track you down
and look at your website.
>> Winkowski: Yes?
>> Noory: Where do they go?
>> Winkowski:
MaryAnnWinkowski.com
>> Noory: And tell us about
your new book, this cookbook?
>> Winkowski:
This cookbook, yeah.
>> Noory: Here we go.
>> Winkowski: "100
Recipes from 100 Ghosts"
and 100 stories
of how I got them.
>> Noory: Have the ghosts
given you these recipes?
>> Winkowski: Every
one of them, every one of them.
>> Noory: Are they recipes
that would pass the
muster in a restaurant?
>> Winkowski: I think so.
I do. People have really
had a good time with them.
>> Noory: Oh, that's fun.
>> Winkowski: And every one
was tested so they all work.
So it's a cute, little book.
>> Noory: Hey, I
had fun with you.
>> Winkowski:
I have had a good time.
>> Noory: And keep
looking at the ghosts
and everything else Mary Ann.
I appreciate you.
>> Winkowski: I will.
Thanks so much.
>> Noory: Always a pleasure,
good to meet you after being
on "Coast to Coast" with
me for so many years.
>> Winkowski:
I know, for how long.
>> Noory: For so
many years, my gosh.
>> Winkowski: I was in studio
once with you.
>> Noory: One time, one
time, a long time ago.
>> Winkowski: Yeah,
a long time ago, yeah it was.
This was fun.
>> Noory: Well, thank you again.
>> Winkowski: Thank you.
>> Noory: You've been watching,
of course, "Beyond Belief"
and stay with us all the time
right here on beyondbelief.com
where you can watch more
innovative, entertaining
and very strange shows.
[ Music ]